Intro overhaul (#42)
oetiker/lshort: book/src/basics.tex

your input file on a text based system. Please note: this description assumes
that a working \LaTeX{} installation already sits on your computer. If this is
not the case you may want to look at Appendix~\ref{installinglatex} on
page~\pageref{installinglatex} first.

\begin{enumerate}
  \item Edit/Create your \LaTeX{} input file. This file must be plain text.  On
        \Unix{} systems most of the editors will create just that. On Windows
        you might want to make sure that you save the file in \emph{Plain Text}
        format. When picking a name for your file, make sure it bears the
        extension \eei{.tex}.

  \item Open a shell or cmd window, \texttt{cd} to the directory where your
        input file is located and run \LaTeX{} on your input file using either
        \begin{lscommand}
          \verb+xelatex foo.tex+
        \end{lscommand}
        or
        \begin{lscommand}
          \verb+lualatex foo.tex+
        \end{lscommand}
\end{enumerate}

If successful you will end up with a \texttt{.pdf} file. It may be necessary to
run \LaTeX{} several times to get the table of contents and all internal

> references right. When your input file has a bug \LaTeX{} will tell you about

Reviewer: ```suggestion
references right. When your input file has a bug, \LaTeX{} will tell you about
```

it and stop processing your input file. Type \texttt{ctrl-D} to get back to the
command line.

\section{Logical Structure of Your Document}

In the Section~\ref{sec:layout_design} we have mentioned that one of the
differences between \LaTeX{} and WYSIWYG editors is that in \LaTeX{} you write
the document by specifying its logical structure. This section will explore

> this idea in more detail by presenting a problem and showing how it can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this idea in more detail by presenting a problem and demonstrating how it can be
```

that you have already used cursive font for emphasis in some cases, such as
\enquote{{\color[HTML]{2E7D32} Are you gonna eat \emph{that}?}}. Continuing
with your current approach you would have to also check each paragraph for
emphasis and change it to something else before changing the font to cursive.

The above problems with changing the style of paragraphs are caused by the fact
that your WYSIWYG editor doesn't know that all green paragraphs somehow
represent common concept (events in one dimension). It just remembers that you
want these words in green, those in red and that one in cursive. Thus changing
it to a different style means going over everything again and changing style of
each and every paragraph and word.

Wouldn't it be nice if you could somehow communicate to your editor
\enquote{these paragraphs are happening in dimension A} and then simply decide
that all such paragraphs are green or using a different font? This is exactly
what logical markup does.

\subsection{Your First Text Command}

To see how this example would play out different in \LaTeX{} let's introduce
our first text command
\begin{lscommand}
  \ci{emph}[text]
\end{lscommand}

> It stands for \enquote{emphasise} and does just that: emphasises the
> \carg{text} it received as a parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It stands for \enquote{emphasise} and does just that: it emphasises the
\carg{text} it received as a parameter.
```

  This one is \emph{too}.
\end{em}
\end{example}

\subsection{Summary}

Using logical markup we can embed the logical structure of our document inside
the document itself. Instead of saying \enquote{write this and green and write
  this word in cursive}, we say \enquote{this text happens in dimension A and
  this word is emphasised} and the style of all texts in \enquote*{dimension A}
or emphasised words can be decided later and easily changed.

If you started writing your hypothetical novel using \LaTeX{} instead of
WYSIWYG editor and used custom environments for typesetting events in different
dimensions and \ci{emph} for emphasis, then changing it to black and white
version would come down to simply changing the definition of the custom
environments.

Before learning how to define your own commands and environments, this book
will introduce you to many standard ones, that are provided either by \LaTeX{}
itself or available via third party packages.

\section{Packages}\index{package} While writing your document, you will
probably find that there are some areas where basic \LaTeX{} cannot solve your
problem. If you want to include \wi{graphics}, \wi{coloured text} or source

> code from a file into your document, you need to enhance the capabilities of

Reviewer: oh yea ... a section on the listings package would be nice too :)

\LaTeX. Such enhancements are called packages. Packages are activated with the
\begin{lscommand}
  \ci{usepackage}[options][package]
\end{lscommand}
command, where \carg{package} is the name of the package and
\carg{options} is a list of keywords that trigger special features in
the package. The \ci{usepackage} command goes into the preamble of the
document. See Section~\ref{sec:structure} for details.

This book will describe some packages that the authors thought were especially
useful and should be installed along with your \LaTeX{} distribution. See
Table~\ref{packages} for some examples. Their versions may be different than
the ones described in this book, which in turn may lead to differences in the
produced output. Along with the package introduction we will usually also point

> to its entry in our bibliography. Along other information you can also check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to its entry in our bibliography. In the bibliograph entry you will also find information about the package
```

> the version that was used when describing it. You can check the versions of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version that was used when writing this booklet. You can check the versions of
```

> used packages in the \eei{.log} file that is produced when compiling a document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all the packages used in a document, by looking at the \eei{.log} file that is produced when compiling the document.
```

> that uses the package. If they aren't very different (usually the first number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the package versions aren't very different (usually the first number
```

  \begin{tabular}{@{}lp{9.5cm}@{}}
    \toprule
    Package            & Description                                        \\
    \midrule
    \pai*{amsmath}     & Provides additional commands for typesetting
    mathematical symbols and environments for aligning equations. Described
    in Chapter~\ref{chap:math}.                                             \\

    \pai*{polyglossia} & Makes it easy to write \LaTeX{} documents in
    languages different than English or even multiple languages.
    Described in Section~\ref{sec:polyglossia}.                             \\

    \pai*{booktabs}    & Provides commands for producing beautifully
    formatted tables for your document. Described in
    Section~\ref{sec:tables}.                                               \\

    \pai*{biblatex}    & Provides commands for automatically specifying and
    producing a bibliography for your document. Described in
    Chapter~\ref{chap:bibliography}.                                        \\

    \pai*{makeidx}     & Provides commands for producing indices. Described
    in Section~\ref{sec:indexing}.                                          \\

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

\pai*{fancyhdr}     & Let's you easily customize page headers and footers. Described in Section~\ref{sec:fancy}.\\
```
